dashboard of Tableau_final_project_german_cars in tableau
https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/nikolaos.k./viz/Final_project_Dashboard/Dashboard-FinalProject?publish=yes

story of Tableau_final_project_german_cars in tableau
https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/nikolaos.k./viz/Final_project_Story/Story-FinalProject?publish=yes

We use the autoscout24-germany-dataset from Kaggle, we upload the dataset to Tableau from Data.
First, we check from Data Source > Filters > Edit  the nulls and we exclude them from the columns that have
nulls, model column, fuel column, gear column, hp column.
Then, we check the numerical and categorical columns, if needed we convert them to different type.
So, as numbers (measures) we have the columns hp, mileage, price and year and as strings we have the columns fuel, gear,
make, model and offer type.
Let's check some insights and trends from useful charts.

barplot average mileage by fuel type: we could check the average mileage from the cars by fuel type, cars
which have fuel type ethanol, diesel and LPG tend to be sold with high mileage, we can assume that the 
owners of these cars use more these cars, so they are more satisfied and after long use and with high mileage
decide to sell their cars. On the other hand owners of hydrogen cars and electric cars tend to sell their cars 
with low mileage (one reason could be the lack of fuel stations, and the expensive costs of battery 
change for electric cars). We could also notice that Electric/Diesel and Hydrogen cars are more expensive
than the others and LPG, CNG and ethanol cars are cheaper than the rest.

scatterplot mileage-price: we could check the distribution of the observations based on the combination
mileage-price. The distribution seems to be negative exponential. An exponential trend line gives us an r2 score of 0,22.
We could also notice some extreme outliers in the distribution for both of the variables.

scatterplot hp-price: we could check the distribution of the observations based on the combination hp-price.
The observations are fitted with a polynomial line, the R2 score is 0,61 for k=3.
We can notice that the amounts have behavor like proportional amounts,
so when the hp increases then the price tends to increase as well and the opposite
when the hp decreases then the price tends to decrease, as well (in a polynomial way). Cars with high hp are
more expensive and this is logical.

barplot fuel_type - avg price: we could check the relationship between fuel_type and avg price.
We had some similar insights in the barplot average mileage by fuel type. As we have already noticed 
Electric/Diesel (avg price: 37605) and Hydrogen cars (avg price: 34990) are more expensive
than the others and LPG (avg price: 11396), CNG (avg price: 12602) and ethanol (avg price: 3450) cars
are cheaper than the rest. 
We could create a chart for the number of cars per fuel type to have a clear picture. Indeed,
the total numbers of Ethanol (2 cars), Hydrogen (1 car) and Electric/Diesel (53 cars) cars are small,
so the samples are not representative and we cannot draw safe conclusions.  

barplot gearbox - avg price: we could check the relationship between gearbox and avg price.
Seems that the average price of Automatic cars has a significant difference with the 
average price of the other 2 categories (manual and semi-automatic), so the automatic cars have almost
triple average price from the other categories.

barplot offer type - avg price: we could check the relationship between offer type and avg price.
As we expected new cars are more expensive than the other categories on average. Although we could notice
the presence of outliers in every category and especially in the new offer type because of the big
difference between the average price and the median price (for instance in the new offer type category
the average price is 66124 and the median price is 18550, almost triple, that shows us the existence 
of big and lot of outliers)

barplot make - avg price: we could check the relationship between different makes and avg price.
The make Maybach has the most expensive cars on average (Maybach avg price: 608439). Makes Ferrari, 
Lamborghini, Bentley and McLaren are also expensive makes. The cheapest make is the make Daihatsu
(Daihatsu avg price: 4927).

avg price line per year: we could check the relationship between avg price and years, it is a timeserie.
The timeserie line follows linear regression (R2 score is almost 0,94) and the amounts are almost proportional.
It is logical that the prices of older cars are cheaper and newer cars are more expensive, respectively.
if we were candidate buyers of a car and we were looking for cheap opportunities,
then we should check cars from the year 2016, because the point of the avg price this year is below the line and
the distance between the point of the average price in 2016 and the line is the biggest distance we meet. 

scatterplots hp, mileage vs price: it is a combination of the 2 plots,
scatterplot hp-price and scatterplot mileage-price, in the same graph - chart and 
we have already discussed the insights.

barplot fuel type, gear type vs avg price: it is a combination of 2 plots, 
there is information about the fuel type and the gear type.
The most expensive cars are the electric/diesel - automatic cars (avg price: 38259).

We also use some KPIs: the median price, the average price, the 95th percentile price and the max price,
so we can understand better the dataset.